so in this video what we gonna do is an
overall set challenge for what we've
learned so gonna actually go about the or the
challenge is going to be all about the
heavenly body class to be better
representation of the universe and along
the lines of what I mentioned at the end
of the video lecture 112
so my solution is to be cleared
is just gonna show one way to achieve the end
results it is very likely that your solution
will be different and that's completely
ok
important thing with all challenges is that they passed the
tests that I'm going to include the
challenge what I'm gonna do is create a new Java
class and I've got the previous
projects still open you can see we
got various classes including the
heavenly body and you need to have that
heavenly body class for this challenge
so make sure that you got that project opened
or you got that code in your class
in your projects so lets go ahead and create a new
class and we call this the SetChallenge and we
need to create a main so I'm going to do
psvm again.....
...ok so their is our main method so what I'm going to
do is paste in the
challenge I should say ok so
here is to challenge the challenge is to
modify the previous heavenly body
example so that the heavenly body class
also has a body type field now this
field will store a type of heavenly bodies such
as a star planet moon etc you can
include as many types as you want but
you must support at the very least
planet and moon now for each of the types that
you support subclass a heavenly body
class so that your program can create
objects of that appropriate type now although astronomers may shudder at this solar system
will allow two bodies to have the same
name as long as they're not the same
type of body so you can have a start called beta minor and asteroid called beta minor
for example now the hint here is that
it's much easier to implement for the set than
it is for the map because a map will need a key that uses both fields there is
also a restriction that the only
satellites the planets can
have must be moons so even if you don't
implement a star type your program
shouldn't prevent one being added in the
future and a star satellite can be
almost any kind of heavenly body now the
test case you want to be able to pass
firstly 1 the planets and moons that we
added in the previous video should appear
in the solar system collection and in
a sets of moon's for the appropriate
planets test case 2 a.equals(b) as you
can see on the screen there must return
the same result as b.equals(a) so in other word
equals is symmetric number three
attempting to add a duplicate to
a set must result in no change to the
set so that the original value is replace by the new one and
number 4 attempting to add a duplicate
to a map results in the original been
replaced by the new object 5 2 bodies
with the same name but different
designations can be added to the same
set and finally two bodies with the same
names as number 6 but different
designations can be added to the same
map and can also be retrieved from the
map so that's it quite a meaty challenge
for you to go away and work on the so go
and do that now pause this video and
when you ready to come back and see the
solution that I have come up with start the video
again so pause the video now and I'll see you
when you get back
ok welcome back and hopefully you
manage to figure out the solution so
let's now go through my version and as I
mentioned earlier this is just one way
of doing it there's always pretty well
always with anything any code your writing
multiple ways of achieving so 1st is go in to the heavenly body class and
open it up what we need to do is add
another field to store the type of body
and then in addition to that we should
define the types that the class knows about
now there's a couple of ways to do this
I'm gonna show you one way then show
you probably a second way of doing this as well
so that we are going to do is at add....
....and its complaining of course because we haven't
initialize it but will come back and do
that shortly because it's a final it
wants to have the value either set
when you declare it or in the
Constructors so I will come back and do
that so one way of doing it is to do something
like this I'm gonna paste this code in
the various types the body types you
could do something like this and it's
gonna be perfectly valid if you have
done that so you have the various types defined like that public static final
.....and basically have a
unique number for each of the various
body types and again if you done that with your solution that's fine but the other
thing is to keep in mind is that Java has as a way
of grouping constants together and
in what's called an Enum I'm gonna cover those in more detail
later in the course because there's a
lot more to them than we're going to be
using in this particular example but I wanted to show
you how to use it in a case like this
where we've got multiple values because
it can be a quite convenient and more intuitive to read so instead of having a different
declaration for each we can define an enum like so and I'm gonna paste it over this code
so we defined a type..... and the valid type or values
for this body type are star planet or planet
moon comet or asteroid and one
advantage of using an enum here is that enums are types and it means that when
we change the constructor we can make sure
that it only accepts a valid body type
but it also means that we changed this int here
to the body type
and notice how it's come up as a
declaration these other types that are defined
in the Java specification the one we want here is the body types that we specified so select that
you can see now that body a body
type variable is of type body types and
we can also do then at that point
is we can with a constructor change
the constructor to also accept a parameter of
body type and come back here and type....
.....
...and once we do that the error up here goes away because
we've now initialized it and the great
thing about it an enum is that it's only going
to accept a variable or parameter that has got one of these types specified you
see that in practice shortly
ok so working through the heavenly body class their are requirements
that a planet satellite can only be moons
so if you go back and have a look at the moon
method you might be tempted to write
something like this....
....and the other things is what I should probably
talk about is a bit more is the the enum in case your unfamiliar with it so first with our integer
constants that I added before I changed
the body to an enum their wouldn't be any
compile time checking that the integer
body type was one of the values that the
class knows about some in other words we
have to include code the constructor
to check that the best we can do is a
runtime error but the advantage of using
an enum here is that we get an error at
compile time if body type isn't valid so
if someone tries to sort of
pass an invalid type their we are going to get
an error so that's one series
advantage to using enums and you will see
another advantage when it comes to
printing out the heavenly bodies now a nested
enum is automatically static so
it's possible to refer to the enum
values without creating an instance of a
heavenly body object
and I'll explain further as we use this
in the solution but if you've use constants then again that's
fine your solution works ultimately is the tests then if that does congratulations
that's also fine but I just really want to show you that enum are quite useful and how to use those so we added our body
type and with now converted it to an enum
and we've also added a getter let's go
back to this moon code so as I
mentioned it might be at first glance
thinking that we need to make sure
that the planets satellites that are pass are only
moons maybe we can do it by
using the get types so we could put....
.....
....
...at first glance you might think maybe I
could do something like that and it
is checking for moon right
this actually isn't a good idea and in
thinking about it further it really
the name itself or the method is badly chosen heavenly bodies other than
planets can have satellites and they
don't have to be moons now most of the
objects in our solar system orbit the
Sun so if we restrict our moon like this
it makes it impossible to
give a star satellites so we are going to put this
back to how it was and also refactor it to be add satellite which better reflects what is happening in
so undo those changes...went to far so I'll redo that change and I'll just
returned that so it is back to how it was then we refactor the method name right click
..so any type of heavenly
body can now be added as a satellite of
the other of any other and if we want to
restrict planets to only have moons
orbiting them we can override the add
satellite method in the planet sub
class which i think is a much better
design now the specification
of the heavenly body class has changed
to require 2 fields used to
identify body not just the name as previously now we added the body type field as you know and as a result we
don't need to change the equals and
hashCode methods to reflect this change
because it wouldn't be correct now without
that so the change to equals isn't complicated
just need to add another test here to
see if the body type is the same with the
two objects have the same name so lets go and do
so in the equals method
we got this test here to check for null
but we are going to change the code so
where as before we had the check for
null and the checking to see where the object
of get class is not equal to get class we are
gonna change that we're going to use
something called instance off and use that
as a way of checking so here we are going to...
.....
.....because obviously we know we've done
a check to see whether the object is an
instance of object and then we will
create a new object casting it
correctly because we know that type and at
that point we can now do a test we can put if...
.....so if that's true
which means the names the same then we can return....
....and down here all we need to
do is return false.....because we know that
there's been either the names is different or
the body type is different again because we
intend to subclass heavenly body to create
the planet moon and other objects and
that's why we're testing in this class
we are now using instance off and also the
other important thing to
do now is to avoid problems with the
equals not being symmetric we're going
to mark the method as final and I talk
to you previously about that as to why we go
about that doing that and you saw that at the previous video
actually so.....so if equals is final then
hashCode should be as well so lets go ahead
and do that.....we are going to change our method
I'm going to delete the output at the moment you can see we've got this.name.hashCode() + 57
which is an arbitrary number if we had
used integer for our constants we could have just
use the integer values just added that to the 57
but fortunately its not actually much
harder with enum because enums
constants has a hashCode method as
well so all we need to do there is put.....
....and that gives us a
unique hash code now the final method to
add is optional
but it makes printing out the heavenly bodies easier we are going to
override the toString method so that
displays the body type and orbital period
as well as the name so.....
.....
.....makes it a bit easier for us to see that
on screen and one thing you will find when we run this
is another advantage that i
mentioned I was going to tell you about
with enums is when you go to print them
out in this case we are going to print the toString
method that comes with the enum returns the
name of the enum in other words will get whatever the names that we defined will get
star planet moon comet and that
can be very useful for something like
this we want to print out the body type
and not having to convert a number back
to a description or something along
those lines and just in case it's not
obvious is that when we use an object
in a string concatenation like this Java
implicitly calls toString method to
obtain a string representation of the
object you probably knew that but I just want to make that clear now we are going to cover toString in more
detail in the section on debugging
as it's really intended for use when
writing log files debugging rather than
displaying text to use as we doing here
but for simple class such as this one
it's really helpful shortcuts and useful
to add ok so that's pretty much it for
the heavenly body class for
now we're almost ready to create the
subclasses and we've made the class final
which means it can't be subclass so we need
to change declaration to remove the
final
so remove that because we want to sub classe it we are going to remove that so
it is not final anymore so we can
actually do a subclass
gonna finish this video here now when we
come back to the next video we are gonna start
creating the sub classes and continue on
with the challenge solution so I'll see
you in the next video